# baseboat-gp - Starter Theme
baseboat-gp is a simple WordPress starter theme designed for building block themes, featuring a development workflow with pre-made PHP includes for CSS and JS on both the front-end and Gutenberg editor, PHP linting, a simple Gulp workflow, and a zip export function for easy manual deployment.

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- PHP **7.4 or higher** (tested up to PHP 8.4)
- Composer
- Node.js & npm
- WordPress >= **6.0**
- Gulp.js

### Installation
Clone the repository and install the dependencies:

```bash
composer install
npm install --dev
```

### Project Structure
The theme contains the following directories and files:

```bash
.
├── assets
│   ├── css
│   │   ├── theme.css
│   │   └── theme.css.map
│   ├── fonts
│   │   └── index.php
│   ├── images
│   │   └── index.php
│   ├── js
│   │   └── theme.js
│   └── scss
│       ├── abstracts
│       ├── base
│       ├── components
│       ├── layout
│       ├── pages
│       ├── themes
│       └── vendors
├── functions.php
├── gulpfile.js
├── inc
│   ├── theme_assets.php
│   ├── theme_functions.php
│   └── theme_supports.php
├── parts
│   ├── footer.html
│   └── header.html
├── README.md
├── readme.txt
├── screenshot.png
├── style.css
├── templates
│   └── index.html
└── theme.json
```

## Development Workflow

### 🧹 Code Quality
baseboat-gp enforces strict coding standards and static analysis to avoid bugs and maintain clean code.

#### PHP Linting
Run PHP linting with:

```bash
composer run lint:php
```

This will:
- Use **PHP CS Fixer** to automatically fix code style issues.
- Use **PHPStan** for static analysis and bug detection.

#### JavaScript Linting
Lint your JavaScript files using ESLint:

```bash
gulp lint-js
```

This will:
- Check for code quality and consistency.
- Automatically fix some issues using Prettier & ESLint.

#### SCSS Linting
Lint SCSS files with Prettier and PostCSS:

```bash
gulp lint-scss
```

This will:
- Format SCSS code according to a consistent style.
- Automatically fix code style issues where possible.

#### Theme.json Formating
Format Theme.json file with Prettier

```bash
gulp format-theme-json
```

This will:
- Format Theme.json file according to a consistent style.

### Code Build
Gulp is used to automate tasks such as compiling SCSS, linting code, and creating a zip archive of the theme. Below are the key build commands:

#### Build CSS
Compile SCSS files into CSS, generating sourcemaps for easier debugging.

```bash
gulp build-css
```

This will:
- Compile SCSS files into minified CSS (theme.css).
- Create source maps for easier debugging (theme.css.map).

#### Watch SCSS
Watch SCSS files and trigger the build task automatically.

```bash
gulp watch-scss
```

This will:
- Watch all SCSS files in the `assets/scss/` directory for changes.
- Trigger a rebuild of the CSS whenever a change is detected.

#### Zip Theme
Create a zip archive of the theme.

```bash
gulp zip-theme
```

This will:
- Create a `.zip` archive of the theme, excluding unnecessary files like `node_modules` and `.git`.
- Save the archive in the root directory of the project (e.g., `baseboat-gp.zip`).

##### Uploading Your Theme

Once the zip file is created, you can upload it to a WordPress site:

1. Log in to the WordPress admin dashboard.
2. Navigate to **Appearance > Themes**.
3. Click **Add New** and then click **Upload Theme**.
4. Choose the zip file (`baseboat-gp.zip`) generated by Gulp and click **Install Now**.
5. After installation, click **Activate** to use the theme.

## License

baseboat-gp is licensed under the GPL-2.0-or-later license. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.
